---
title: Workouts
summary: Descriptions of workouts
---

## <a href="#squats">Squats</a>

Begin by having your feet shoulder width apart and jumping from a neutral position to see where your feet are pointing. That will be your natural standing position that you should be in when squatting. Your toes should be either pointing forward or slightly outwards. Rest the barbell either on your traps or your neck/shoulders. Tuck your neck backwards. Keep your back straight. Keep your core and glutes engaged. Bend down while keeping a stong core and straight back. Continue until your hips break parallel. Push up explosively. All force should be going through your heels.

## <a href="#deadlifts">Deadlifts</a>

Your feet should be in a similar position as your <a href="#squats">squat</a> position. Grab the barbell shoulder width apart slightly outside your knees. Keep your core engaged and back straight while trying to keep the barbell as close to your body as possible. It should almost skim your shins as you pull it up. Keep your knees slightly bent as you perform the motion. Pull your body up into a standing position. Hold for one second. Again, keep the bar close to your shins as you bend down. Try to control the motion going both up and down. **This is a dangerous exercise and easy to mess up. Have someone watch your form or make sure yourself that you are keeping your back straight and not curving at any part of the motion. If your back is curving, lower the weight.**

## <a href="#split-squats">Split Squats</a>

With either a barbell holding it similar to the <a href="#squats">squat</a> position or dumbbells hanging to your sides, keep one leg back onto a flat bench while stepping slightly forward. Bend down until your knee has hit 90 degrees. Do not let you knee pass your toes. Keep your back straight and your core engaged. All force should be going through your heels.

## <a href="#front-step-ups">Front Step Ups</a>

Using a box, step forward similar to climbing stairs. This box should be high enough to be challenging. Drive through the heels in a control motion. Keep your back straight and core engaged. Slowly step back off the box with the same leg.

## <a href="#leg-curls">Leg Curls</a>

Machine-intuitive. Keep your core engaged and control the motion.

## <a href="#seated-calf-raises">Seated Calf Raises</a>

Machine-intuitive

## <a href="#standing-calf-raises">Standing Calf raises</a>

Using a slight incline, start off the ground and lift onto the incline using your toes. Keep your back straight and core engaged.

## <a href="#one-legged-side-jumps">One-legged side jumps</a>

Using a bosu next to a wall, jump strongly off one leg onto the bosu with the opposite leg. Hold for 1 second and push off explosively from the bosu ball off to the leg you jumped off with. Hold this position without tipping over or with any instability.

## <a href="#bench-press">Bench Press</a>

Hold your arms directly above your head while lying down on the bench. Your arms should be slightly wider than shoulder width apart and equidistant from the center of the bar. Keep your head flat and core engaged. Drive your feet into the ground while maintaining a flat back. Bring the bar directly above your chest. Keep your elbows tucked as much as possible. Bend until either your chest touches the barbell or until your elbow makes a right angle. The barbell should be right below your marples. Push up explosively.

<a href="#lat-pulldowns">Lat Pulldowns</a>

Lift your arms straight up. Your arms should be slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Start at a slight bend, hinging at your hips. Pull down towards your chest. Bring the bar as close to your chest as possible. Your shoulder blades should attempt to meet. When you pull the bar, you should naturally hinge at the hips and bend backwards.

<a href="#reverse-lat-pulldowns">Reverse Lat Pulldowns</a>

Lift your arms straight up. Arms should be shoulder width apart. Grab the bar with your palms facing upward. Keep your back straight and core engaged. Pull down the bar towards your upper chest. You should feel this in your biceps.

<a href="#seated-rows">Seated Rows</a>

Keep your knees slightly bent. Keep your back perpendicular to the bench. You should avoid swinging your back backwards. Keep your shoulders relaxed. Keep your elbows to the side and pull towards your chest below your marples. Attempt to touch the V-bar to your chest. Your shoulder blades should attempt to meet.

<a href="#bentover-rows">Bentover Rows</a>

Bend forward while keeping your back straight. Keep your core and glutes engaged. Using overhand grip, Let the bar hang. You should be bent at a 45 degree angle.
